README.md, before:

# Taggart

[![Hex.pm](https://img.shields.io/hexpm/v/taggart.svg)](https://hex.pm/packages/taggart)
[![Build Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/hexdocs-release-blue.svg)](https://hexdocs.pm/taggart/index.html)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ijcd/taggart.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ijcd/taggart)

Taggart is a generation library for tag-based markup (HTML, XML, SGML,
etc.). It is useful for times when you just want code and functions, not
templates. We already have great composition and abstraction tools in
Elixir. Why not use them? With this approach, template composition through
smaller component functions should be easy.

[Documentation](http://hexdocs.pm/taggart/)

There is a [blog post](https://medium.com/@ijcd/announcing-taggart-4e62b485e882)
with an introduction and more documentation.

## Installation

The package can be installed by adding `taggart` to your list of
dependencies in `mix.exs`:

```elixir
def deps do
  [
    {:taggart, "~> 0.1.5"}
  ]
end
```

## Usage

Taggart produce Phoenix-compatible "safe" html through underlying usage of the
[`Phoenix.HTML.content_tag/2`](https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix_html/Phoenix.HTML.Tag.html#content_tag/2).
Since it just produces IO Lists, it should remain compatible with any
other library that uses the same format.

### Syntaxes

Taggart supports a number of different syntaxes:

```elixir
use Taggart.HTML

div("Name")

div("Name", class: "bold")

div(class: "bold", do: "Name")

div do
end

div(class: "bold", do: "Name")

div(class: "bold") do
  "Name"
end

a(href: "#bottom", class: "uk-button uk-button-default", "i-am-a-boolean": true), do: "Click me!"
```

### Nesting

You can nest and combine in expected ways:

```elixir
use Taggart.HTML

name = "Susan"
age = 27

html do
  body do
    div do
      h2 "Buyer"
      p name, class: "name"
      p age, class: "age"
    end
    div do
      "Welcome"
    end
  end
end
```

### Embedding in Phoenix Forms

You can embed Taggart inside Phoenix helpers using `Taggart.taggart/1`
to create IO List without creating a top-level wrapping tag.

```elixir
use Taggart.HTML

form = form_for(conn, "/users", [as: :user], fn f ->
  taggart do
    label do
      "Name:"
    end
    label do
      "Age:"
    end
    submit("Submit")
  end
end)
```

### Using Phoenix Helpers

```elixir
use Taggart.HTML

html do
  body do
    div do
      h3 "Person"
      p name, class: "name"
      p 2 * 19, class: "age"
      form_for(build_conn(), "/users", [as: :user], fn f ->
        taggart do
          label do
            "Name:"
            text_input(f, :name)
          end
          label do
            "Age:"
            select(f, :age, 18..100)
          end
          submit("Submit")
        end
      end)
    end
  end
end
```

### Using from Phoenix Views

Phoenix views are just functions, so it’s possible to use pattern
matching directly in a view to render your pages.

```elixir
defmodule TaggartDemo.PageView do
  use TaggartDemoWeb, :view
  use Taggart.HTML

  def render("index.html", assigns) do
    taggart do
      render_header("My Fancy Title")
      render_body
      render_footer
    end
  end

  def render_header(title) do
    header do
      h1 title
    end
  end

  def render_body do
    main do
      ul do
        for i <- 1..3, do: list_item(x)
      end
    end
  end

  def render_footer do
    footer do
      "So Long Folks!!!"
    end
  end

  def list_item(x) do
    "Name: "
    li(x)
  end
end
```

### Class names (and other white space-separated values)

You can use a list if you want to specify multiple classes.

```elixir
span(class: ["highlighted", "aligh-right"])
```

This can be used on any attribute and will convert the list to a white space-separated value.

### Using `aria-*` and `data-*` attributes

There's a special syntax for `aria-*` and `data-*` attributes that allows to easily specify multiple with a keyword list.

```elixir
div(aria: [checked: false, label: "interactive div"])
```

will be rendered as

```html
<div aria-checked="false" aria-label="interactive div"></div>
```

## A Note On Macro Expansion

The current design allows for a very flexible call structure. However, do
not be tempted to think of these as normal functions. They are currently
implemented as macros. This allows the `do end` blocks to processed as
if they were a list:

```elixir
div do
  "item 1"
  "item 2"
end
```

The alternative would be forcing the use of actual lists, which is necessairly noisier.

```elixir
# Not valid, do not try:
div [
  "Item 1",
  "Item 2"
]
```

The trade-off, however, is that because the macros inspect the arguements
to determine `attr/content` placement, they do not play well with all kinds
of ASTs.

This will work:

```elixir
# works
a = "foo"
div(a)
```

This will not:
```elixir
# do not try this at home
a = [id: "foo", class: "bar"]
div(a)
```

If you try this, you will get an error along the lines of
`lists in Phoenix.HTML and templates may only contain integers 
representing bytes, binaries or other list`. This is because we
make the choice of assuming that a single, non-list argument
(of which AST is) is content and not attrs.

As a workaround, you can either use `Phoenix.HTML.content_tag`
directly, or use the special three-argument version which
ignores the first argument:

```elixir
# try this
a = [id: "foo", class: "bar"]
div(nil, a) do "content" end
```

## Converting from HTML

### PrestoChange.io

You can use the online tool at [prestochange.io](http://www.prestochange.io).

### Install taggart escript using homebrew

```sh
brew install ijcd/tap/taggart
```

```elixir
Reads HTML from stdin and writes Taggart to stdout.

Usage:
  taggart --indent <n|tabs>
  taggart --help

Options:
  -h --help  Show this message.
  --indent   Either n (number of spaces to indent) or "tabs"
```

### Build taggart escript from source

```sh
mix escript.build
./taggart
```

## Design

The design had two basic requirements:

1. Simple Elixir-based generation of tag-based markup.
2. Interoperate properly with Phoenix helpers.

I looked at and tried a few similar libraries (Eml, Marker), but
either wasn't able to get them to work with Phoenix helpers or had
problems with their approach (usage of @tag syntax in templates where
it didn't refer to a module attribute). My goal was to keep things
simple.

## License

Taggart is released under the Apache License, Version 2.0.

Commit message:

docs: update readme to reflect support of attrs as a variable

README.md, after:

# Taggart

[![Hex.pm](https://img.shields.io/hexpm/v/taggart.svg)](https://hex.pm/packages/taggart)
[![Build Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/hexdocs-release-blue.svg)](https://hexdocs.pm/taggart/index.html)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ijcd/taggart.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ijcd/taggart)

Taggart is a generation library for tag-based markup (HTML, XML, SGML,
etc.). It is useful for times when you just want code and functions, not
templates. We already have great composition and abstraction tools in
Elixir. Why not use them? With this approach, template composition through
smaller component functions should be easy.

[Documentation](http://hexdocs.pm/taggart/)

There is a [blog post](https://medium.com/@ijcd/announcing-taggart-4e62b485e882)
with an introduction and more documentation.

## Installation

The package can be installed by adding `taggart` to your list of
dependencies in `mix.exs`:

```elixir
def deps do
  [
    {:taggart, "~> 0.1.5"}
  ]
end
```

## Usage

Taggart produces Phoenix-compatible "safe" html by returning the same data as expected by [`Phoenix.HTML.safe_to_string/1`](https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix_html/Phoenix.HTML.html#safe_to_string/1).
Since it just produces IO Lists, it should remain compatible with any
other library that uses the same format.

### Syntaxes

Taggart supports a number of different syntaxes:

```elixir
use Taggart.HTML

div("Name")

div("Name", class: "bold")

div(class: "bold", do: "Name")

div do
end

div(class: "bold", do: "Name")

div(class: "bold") do
  "Name"
end

a(href: "#bottom", class: "uk-button uk-button-default", "i-am-a-boolean": true), do: "Click me!"
```

### Nesting

You can nest and combine in expected ways:

```elixir
use Taggart.HTML

name = "Susan"
age = 27

html do
  body do
    div do
      h2 "Buyer"
      p name, class: "name"
      p age, class: "age"
    end
    div do
      "Welcome"
    end
  end
end
```

### Embedding in Phoenix Forms

You can embed Taggart inside Phoenix helpers using `Taggart.taggart/1`
to create IO List without creating a top-level wrapping tag.

```elixir
use Taggart.HTML

form = form_for(conn, "/users", [as: :user], fn f ->
  taggart do
    label do
      "Name:"
    end
    label do
      "Age:"
    end
    submit("Submit")
  end
end)
```

### Using Phoenix Helpers

```elixir
use Taggart.HTML

html do
  body do
    div do
      h3 "Person"
      p name, class: "name"
      p 2 * 19, class: "age"
      form_for(build_conn(), "/users", [as: :user], fn f ->
        taggart do
          label do
            "Name:"
            text_input(f, :name)
          end
          label do
            "Age:"
            select(f, :age, 18..100)
          end
          submit("Submit")
        end
      end)
    end
  end
end
```

### Using from Phoenix Views

Phoenix views are just functions, so it’s possible to use pattern
matching directly in a view to render your pages.

```elixir
defmodule TaggartDemo.PageView do
  use TaggartDemoWeb, :view
  use Taggart.HTML

  def render("index.html", assigns) do
    taggart do
      render_header("My Fancy Title")
      render_body
      render_footer
    end
  end

  def render_header(title) do
    header do
      h1 title
    end
  end

  def render_body do
    main do
      ul do
        for i <- 1..3, do: list_item(x)
      end
    end
  end

  def render_footer do
    footer do
      "So Long Folks!!!"
    end
  end

  def list_item(x) do
    "Name: "
    li(x)
  end
end
```

### Class names (and other white space-separated values)

You can use a list if you want to specify multiple classes.

```elixir
span(class: ["highlighted", "aligh-right"])
```

This can be used on any attribute and will convert the list to a white space-separated value.

### Using `aria-*` and `data-*` attributes

There's a special syntax for `aria-*` and `data-*` attributes that allows to easily specify multiple with a keyword list.

```elixir
div(aria: [checked: false, label: "interactive div"])
```

will be rendered as

```html
<div aria-checked="false" aria-label="interactive div"></div>
```

## A Note On Macro Expansion

The current design allows for a very flexible call structure. However, do
not be tempted to think of these as normal functions. They are currently
implemented as macros. This allows the `do end` blocks to processed as
if they were a list:

```elixir
div do
  "item 1"
  "item 2"
end
```

The alternative would be forcing the use of actual lists, which is necessairly noisier.

```elixir
# Not valid, do not try:
div [
  "Item 1",
  "Item 2"
]
```

The trade-off, however, is that because the macros inspect the arguements
to determine `attr/content` placement, they do not play well with all kinds
of ASTs.

Taggart supports passing attributes as a keyword list stored in a variable, for example:

```elixir
# this works!
attrs = [id: "foo", class: "bar"]
div(attrs)
```

But in the rare cases where this does not work you can try to use `PhoenixHTMLHelpers.content_tag`, or use the special three-argument version which ignores the first argument:

```elixir
attrs = [id: "foo", class: "bar"]
div(nil, attrs) do "content" end
```

## Converting from HTML

### Install taggart escript using homebrew

> [!NOTE]
> This currently does not work because homebrew removed `rebar` and the tap hasn't been updated yet.

```sh
brew install ijcd/tap/taggart
```

```
Reads HTML from stdin and writes Taggart to stdout.

Usage:
  taggart --indent <n|tabs>
  taggart --help

Options:
  -h --help  Show this message.
  --indent   Either n (number of spaces to indent) or "tabs"
```

### Build taggart escript from source

```sh
mix escript.build
./taggart
```

## Design

The design had two basic requirements:

1. Simple Elixir-based generation of tag-based markup.
2. Interoperate properly with Phoenix helpers.

I looked at and tried a few similar libraries (Eml, Marker), but
either wasn't able to get them to work with Phoenix helpers or had
problems with their approach (usage of @tag syntax in templates where
it didn't refer to a module attribute). My goal was to keep things
simple.

## License

Taggart is released under the Apache License, Version 2.0.
